== Welcome to Thot

Thot is a simple web application for managing small department libraries.

This version is a complete rewrite of the original Thot Library System wrote
in php by Emre Talatar and others at EPFL (http://http://ipg.epfl.ch).

It was written by Giovanni Cangiani for internal use but may be someone else
out there might find it useful.

== Getting Started

It is highly probable that the app will not work out of the box as the setup
is not very user-friendly although it is a quite standard setup for a
Ruby on Rails application.

== Requirements

1. A Ruby on Rails capable web server

2. Bundler

3. mysql or pgsql database

4. sphinx

== Setup procedure

Verify that your server have all the above requirements then

1. modify and rename removing the trailing <tt>.template</tt> the template files
   in the <tt>config</tt> folder:
   <tt>config/application.yml.template</tt> and <tt>config/database.yml.template</tt>
2. <tt>rake db:migrate</tt>
3. <tt>rake db:seeds</tt>
4. start sphinx
5. <tt>rake thinking_sphinx:start</tt>
6. <tt>rails server</tt> or whatever is needed if you use passenger.

== Usage as Administrator / Operator

The seeds rake task shoudl have created your administrator account. This can
be used for creating accounts for library operators that will take care of
managing the library.

Each Operator can be assigned to one or more <em>labs</em> and hence manage
users and books for those labs or groups.

All the things that an operator can do are listed in the Admin menu after
login. The main taks include adding new books, creating library users, checking
library inventory.

New books are created by first entering their ISBN number. This way the system
can first check if the books is already present in the database, or fetch
informations about the book in the internet (google, library of congress). This
will make it easier to fill the books data in the subsiquent form.

Inventory checking is done by first scanning the code of a shelf and then
scanning all the books therein.

== Usage as User

The computer on the library should be equipped with a barcode scanner that will
be used for identifying users and checking books in/out.

By scanning his personal barcode, the user will be redirected to the page listing
all the books in his hands. At that point, the user can either enter the inventory
number of a book to check it out or scan the book's barcode. Books can be checked
in by scanning the barcode or bu just clicking on the corresponding <tt>return</tt>
link.
